Instructions

1.0 Introductions

  In this turn based strategy game the player commands a squad of 1 to 4 units,
  that are pitted against several waves of enemies in a series of missions.

2.0 Missions

  Each mission has one or more victory conditions. Once you meet all victory conditions, you will have achieved your mission. Typical victory conditions are:

  - Defeat all enemy units
  - Survive X number of rounds

  Likewise, each mission also has fail conditions. If one of the fail condition is met, then the mission has failed. Typical fail conditions are:

  - Time limit: X number of rounds have expired without victory
  - All player units have been destroyed

  As long as mission continues, the units on the map will take consecutive turns.

2.1 Taking Turns

  When the game assigns the turn to a unit, that unit becomes the ACTIVE UNIT. At the start of its turn, the ACTIVE UNIT gains a number of ACTION POINTS. The exact number varies per unit.

  The ACTIVE UNIT can perform ACTIONS, such as moving to another position on the map, or attacking an enemy unit. Each ACTION costs a number of ACTION POINTs to execute. Once the ACTIVE UNIT has spent all of its ACTION POINTS, its turn ends and the next unit will take a turn.

  Once all units have taken a turn, the current ROUND ends and a new ROUND starts. In some missions the number of expired ROUNDs serves a time limit.

2.4 Actions

  The ACTIVE UNIT can take one the following ACTIONS:

  MOVE - move the unit a number of positions up to its movement value (MOV).
  RUN - move the unit a number of positions up to twice its movement value (MOV).
  WPN1, WPN2 - engage an enemy unit with the weapon in slot 1 or 2.
  CLOSE COMBAT - engage an enemy unit with a melee attack.
  CHARGE - run towards and engage an enemy unit with a melee attack.
  TARGET LOCK - lock on to an enemy unit. This increases the chance of scoring a direct hit when attacking the target locked unit.
  PIVOT TURN - Change the facing direction of the ACTIVE UNIT.
  END TURN - Ends the turn and reduces the number of HEAT POINTS equal to the number of unspent ACTION POINTS.

  Note that not all actions ACTIONS are always available. The availability of an ACTION depends on the position of the CURSOR, the number of remaining ACTION POINTS and the UNIT TYPE of the ACTIVE UNIT. Consider some examples:

  - The RUN and MOVE ACTIONS are only available if the cursor is on an empty map position
  - The CLOSE COMBAT action is only available if the target unit is in an adjacent map position
  - The RUN action costs 2 ACTION POINTS and is not available when only 1 ACTION POINT remains

  Some actions can only be performed if certain conditions are met. If the conditions are not met, the action is blocked. A message appears in the HUD that explains why the action is blocked.

  - Attacking with a ranged WPN(X) is only possible if the ACTIVE UNIT has line of sight to its target
  - Moving empty position is only possible if it is withing moving range
  - Attacking with a ranged WPN1 is only possible if it is not currently reloading

2.5 Heat & Shutdown

  In addition to the ACTION POINT cost, each ACTION also incurs a HEAT POINT cost. At the start of a mission, all units start out with 0 HEAT POINTs, but as a unit takes turns and performs ACTIONs, it also accumulates HEAT POINTS.

  Once a unit reaches a total of 6 HEAT POINTS, it will be forced to SHUT DOWN. While a unit is SHUT DOWN, it is especially vulnerable to enemy attacks.

  When a unit that is SHUT DOWN becomes the ACTIVE UNIT, it will automatically end it's turn to remove HEAT POINTS. When a unit is back to 0 HEAT POINTS, it will automatically restart and it is no longer SHUT DOWN.

  Note that a unit can prevent being SHUT DOWN by periodically selecting the END TURN ACTION. This ACTION will remove one HEAT POINT for each unspent ACTION POINT.

2.6 Attacking Unit

  When attacking another unit, the chance of success is determined by the skill of the attacking unit and the defense value of the defending unit.

  The chance of scoring a direct his is determined by the SKL attribute of the attacking unit, reduced by the defensive value of the defending unit. The resulting value represents the % of success.

  Each unit has three different defense values (Front, Side and Rear). The angle of attack in combination with the direction that the defending unit is facing determines which of the three defense values is used.

  The angle of attack is determined by drawing a line from the attacking unit hexagon to the defending unit hexagon. This line crosses one of the 6 sides of the defending unit's hexagon.

  - If this is the side that the defending unit is facing, the front defense value (DFR) is used.
  - If this is the side that is opposite to the side that the defending nuit is facing, the rear defense value (DRR) is used
  - If it is one of the other 4 sides, the side defense value (DSI) is used

  Note that, typically, attacking a unit in from behind has a greater chance of scoring a direct hit, given that the rear defense value is typically the lowest of the defense value.

  Note that if the defending unit is target locked by the attacking unit, the change of scoring a direct hit is increased by 10%

  Note that a target that is SHUT DOWN has a 99% of being hit, regardless of the attacker's skill and the defending units defense values.

3.0 Unit Types & Stats

  Every unit has a number of attributes that determine how well it does in combat. Note that the values for the active unit can be seen in the HUD MENU (press start while select an ACTION)

  Unit Attributes

  APT - Number of action points per turn
  SKL - Skill, used to determine chance of success when attacking
  HTP - Number of hit points
  MOV - Number of movement points
  MEL - Melee damage in close combat
  DFR - Front Defense value
  DSI - Side Defense value
  DRR - Rear Defense value

  Weapon Attributes (each unit is equipped with 1 or 2 weapons)

  DMG - Damage inflicted upon the target when scoring a direct hit with this weapon
  MIN - Minimum Range (expressed in number of Map positions)
  MAX - Maximum Range (expressed in number of Map positions)
  AMM - Max Ammunition (maximum number times this weapon can be used)
  RLD - Number of turns that this weapon takes to reload (or recharge)
  HTI - Number of HEAT POINTS inflicted upon the target when scoring a direct hit with this weapon
  HTC - The HEAT POINT cost of using this weapon

4.0 Controls

4.1 Player Turn mode

  D-PAD   Controls the position of the cursor
  B       Toggle to the next ACTION, de-select the selected ACTION
  A       select the current ACTION, confirm the selected ACTION
  start   Upens the HUD MENU

4.2 Select Direction mode

  D-PAD   Pivot left / right
  A       Confirm current direction
  B       Hold to scroll the map with D-PAD

4.3 HUD Menu mode

  D-PAD   Navigate the HUD MENU
  Start   Close the HUD MENU

4.4 Dialog mode

  A       Speed up dialog, next page
  Start   Skip dialog
